We're talking about inserting points,
but let's do this in C++ now.
So there is actually a quiz and exercise set up for this and it's in
the directory source quiz cluster and there's two files, there's cluster.cpp,
and that'll be the main file,
and there's also this kdtree.h,
and that's what you'll be working on for creating this kdtree.
So let's go ahead and check out the code for that,
and here we're just talking about some methods for actually completing this function.
We'll come back to it in a little bit.
But let's go ahead and check out the code.
So let's go ahead and navigate over to the quiz directory inside cluster,
and let's check out this cluster.cpp and see what that's all about.
So in this function we are including kdtree.h.
So that's what's going to be helping us look at this 2D data,
the 2D data that we're using is actually
just the exact same 2D data that we were looking at earlier in the slides.
So we have some methods for creating that data,
and we have some methods for rendering our 2D tree.
Also that was we looked at some of those visualizations in the slide as well.
This is actually the function that's being used to do those visualizations.
That'll help me out nicely for just seeing how the tree is being created,
and let's go ahead and check out what's being called down here.
We are creating this kdtree and then we're inserting our points,
those are the same points that were looking at earlier for our 2D data,
and then we're calling this rendered 2D tree,
and then we can visually see what it looks like,
and what it should look like is that from the slides where
all those points are evenly or are splitting across different regions.
So when you first boot this up and compile and run it you'll see the 2D data,
and you'll know that your insert function is working once
it's actually able to split those different regions.
So let's check out kdtree now.
So look at kdtree.h.
So it's a struct and it'll have some different methods and one of them is called insert.
So what this is going to take in is it's going to take in a brand new point.
Here we're working with 2D data,
and we're representing this point,
this xy point, as this a vector of floats.
So the first element of the vector is going to be your x component,
and then the second element's going to be your y component,
and it's going to have some ID.
Just think about this as some unique identifier for the point.
So it's just the index that it references in your point Cloud.
So we have 11 points total for our 2D data.
So the IDs will go from 0-10 for each of those.
So you'll fill in this insert function which is going to modify
this k-d tree which just has this route and this node is also a struct.
So a node just has this left child then has a right child,
it's a binary node,
and it has an ID and it has this point,
and it has this function for creating a brand new node as well
where you can give it this this brand new point in a brand new id.
So you'll fill in this insert function for modifying that tree
and just some hints for getting started try
this doing this for a one-point to start out with.
We were looking at our slides,
and we had that one slide
where we're showing what it looks like after doing a single insert.
See if you can get that going,
just try inserting a single point and see if you can get this vertical line
split here and that render tree function will tell you,
it'll give you this result when you run it.
Then if you can get that working so that's just assigning the root basically.
Next, so this this insert function is really going to be recursive,
it's recursive in nature.
So let's talk about why that is.
Because really what you're doing is you're traversing
the tree until you reach a node that's null,
and then when you hit that null node that's
when you would actually create this brand new node,
and you would assign that null node
this brand new node that you're creating from the points in the ID,
and how are you traversing the tree?
Well, that's just depending on the depth.
That's how you're doing your comparisons.
It's just like the quiz.
You're in the quiz, you're walking through the tree until you hit one of
these null nodes and then that's going to create
your own brand new node with your point and your ID.
So that's basically how the insert function works.
So the hints there it's going to be recursive but you can
just try seeing if you can do it for one to start out with.
Can you assign that route?
Then what does it look like when you're calling that render tree function.